---
layout: post
title: How will Brexit affect Alberta & Canada?
tags: economics brexit
---

Brexit will have two primary effects:

1. As the referendum is a nonbinding vote and has no direct effect other than to
   demonstrate the political will of the British people, the immediate effect
   of the vote will be to create immense instability. Markets are spooked
   as it is unclear what will happen to Britain during negotiations, as
   European countries have expressed their interest in punishing Britain so as
   to provide a disincentive to other countries that seek to leave the European
   Union.
2. Britain will likely trade less with the EU, and correspondingly, trade more
   with other countries, such as Canada, which is current Britain's Nth largest
   trading partner. If the pound continues to devalue, then British exports
   should soar. (Sparkline of GBP/CAD) Consequently, if there are Canadian
   companies looking to purchase goods & services from British companies, now
   is an excellent time to do so. British executives will be looking to reassure
   their shareholders/employees that their companies are well prepared to
   weather the upcoming negotiations, and will welcome the opportunity to
   secure non-EU contracts.

What should Canadian companies do?

1. Remain calm. Britain will be okay, although it might struggle internally (the
   continued decline of small towns is likely to continue). Estimates of the
   impact on GDP range from X% to Y%, which are bad, but not catastrophic.
   Britain will still have one of the world's ten largest economies. 
2. If acquisitions of British talent/property/assets have been planned, now is
   an excellent time to continue. The current devaluation of the British pound
   represents a buying opportunity--- up to a 10% discount over what assets
   would have been priced at last week. The tech sector in London, called the
   Silicon Roundabout, is reeling as many of the clients are from Europe. Smart
   Canadian companies can exploit this to secure valuable talent. Google has
   done this, with much of the team behind their recent Go playing AI coming
   from DeepMind, a British AI startup. 
3. Seek to strengthen trade ties with Britain.  Companies will be struggling
   with the uncertainty, and will welcome the opportunity to reassure their
   shareholders and employees that everything is business as usual.

If you represent a business/government that requires more extensive advice on
Brexit, or would like more detailed estimates on the economic impacts of Brexit
or similar economic events, please get in touch with me at
[finbarr@darkhorseanalytics.com](mailto:finbarr@darkhorseanalytics.com).
