---
layout: post
title: Securing yourself against online tracking
tags: security
---

# Overview

Online security is weird. You start taking reasonable
measures, and all of a sudden, you're wearing a tinfoil hat and air-gapping
all of your computers. You can go crazy with security, so it's important to
be realistic about the types of threats that you face, and choose security
options based on the threats you're worried about.

There's some stuff that you definitely *should* do, and then after that, you
start getting deeper and deeper into paranoia territory. How deep you want to
go depends on how worried you are (and remember--- you're not paranoid if they
really *are* out to get you).

You should definitely do three things:

1. Install uBlock Origin & Privacy Badger.
2. Use a password manager like LastPass to generate secure passwords.
3. Encrypt all of your hard drives.

After that, it depends on how worried you are. If you're concerned that people
might be trying to log into your accounts, or access your computers illicitly,
you should look at installing two-factor authentication on your email accounts,
password manager, and computers.

## uBlock Origin

uBlock Origin is an ad blocker that's super lightweight, and just works (there's
been some weird controversies about ad blockers... Google 'Adblock Plus' if
you're interested). It blocks requests by default, so that, e.g., Google
Analytics can't track your visits to sites. This might break some sites, but you
can disable it for those sites.

[Link](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm?hl=en)

## Privacy Badger

Privacy Badger is a tool made by the EFF (a non-profit that focuses on digital
rights) that blocks spying ads and invisible trackers. This would, for instance,
block the images that BananaTags uses to track forwards from loading.

[Link](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/privacy-badger/pkehgijcmpdhfbdbbnkijodmdjhbjlgp)

## Password managers

Password Managers are tools that manage your passwords for you. This allows you
to come up much more complex passwords that are randomly generated, and to share
them securely (no more emailing passwords, or sharing a Google Sheet).

LastPass is the one that I'm most familiar with, and it has a free tier that
satisfies most of your needs.

[Link](https://www.lastpass.com/)


# Less crucial security options

## Two Factor Authentication (2FA):

2FA is a system where you are required to prove your identity in a second,
independent way. As a result, having 2FA enabled guarantees that merely having
your password isn't enough to access your account. If John Podesta had 2FA
enabled, Russia wouldn't have been able to hack his emails.

You can enable 2FA on Gmail, Lastpass, and to login to Windows. There are
multiple ways of using 2FA:

1. Have a code sent by SMS to your phone
2. Use an app on your phone that generates codes
3. Use a physical stick that generates a code (so you don't have to type
anything- just push a button).

I'm currently demoing a Yubikey (one of the physical 2FA keys) for work; I'll
update this with a review afterwards.

## IBA Opt-out

IBA Opt-out opts you out of Google's interest-based ads, which makes it so that
other sites can't track you through the ads. This is Google only, so it's less
useful than the other tools.

https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/iba-opt-out-by-google/gbiekjoijknlhijdjbaadobpkdhmoebb?hl=en

## HTTPS Everywhere

Also by the EFF, HTTPS Everywhere makes it so that all of your pages use HTTPS
if supported. It's useful to defend against sites that try to inject ads or
unwanted material (e.g. on Greyhound, the bus wifi automatically takes over the
ads). Unsecured connections can be used for man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks,
where a page steals your data by snooping on your traffic. That shouldn't be a
problem as every site you use should use HTTPS, but there's no harm in using
HTTPS.

[Link](https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere%20)
