---
layout: post
title: Econ 467 Notes
tags: economics environment
--- 

# Instruments
- How does a regulator set taxes? 
    - Typically, the regulator sets a rate at the point where MD = MAC. If the company over-reports MAC, then the regulator ends up taxing the firm more than it would have otherwise. Rates are based on the price.

- How does a regulator set permits?
    - Permits are based on the emissions levels, which is why permits create an incentive to overestimate MAC. 

- When does MD, MAC knowledge come into play? 
    - If MD is unknown, but MAC is known, then losses are the same for both taxes and permits, as the response of polluters to the policies is determined by the MAC curve, which is known with certainty.
  
    - If MD is known, but MAC is unknown, a tax will overshoot the optimum, implementing too much abatement. A quantity instrument, such as a permits auction, will cause too little abatement. The relative utility of the policies thus depends on the slopes of the MAC/MD curves, and the relative merit is debatable. 

# SO₂ Trading Systems
- How were permits allocated? What are the (dis)advantages of this system?

    - Owners of electric generating units are given fixed numbers of allowances based on historic emissions and fuel use.
	- Advantages:
        - easy way to allocate allowances
        - provides a clear and understandable means of doing so
        - incorporating fuel use creates an incentive to use more efficient fuels, especailly ones that might not be economically affordable witout the incentive
        - Free → easy political buy in.
        - the market based nature of the system allowed the system to take into account the massive number of old, inefficient, plants.

    - Disadvantage(s):
        - if historic emissions are taken into account, there is a clear incentive to drive up emissions in the years before the program begun.
        - leads to adverse selection problems -> firms that reduce most are subsequently penalised, firms that reduce least get more allowances 
        - If allowances are free, it misses an opportunity to riase funds, and can make it still profitable to overemit. 


- Were permit holders allowed to bank permits?
    - Yes! Banking was one of the fundamental features of the system.

- How did banking contribute to the success of the system?
    - Prices of allowances were expected to rise from Phase I to Phase II, so many firms banked allowances for price reasons
    - Efficient allowances market emerged, obeying the law of one price -> success, as the marginal cost of emitting becomes unifomr across the country
    - 10% of emissions were covered by allowances from other units
    - 1/3rd of emissions from Phase 1 were banked
    - volumes were significantly higher than in the EPA auctions for more allowances
    - efficient market developed as the top and bottoms of the market converged 

- How did permit holders behave w.r.t. banking? 
    - Permit holders behaved rationally → throughout the program, there was an industry wide perception that rates would dramatically increase in Phase II of the project. Consequently, there was a large amount of banking happening in Phase I. 
	
- Did the low price of permits reflect a failure of the system? If so, what was the failing, and how was it linked to the low price?
    - Market participants faced an initial decision between building carbon scrubbers and purchasing allowances. Given that the decision had to be made well before the start of trading, firms were obligated to make the decision based on the predictions of analysts; as analysts predicted very high prices for carbon, firms made the decision to install scrubbers, which dramatically lowered the cost of carbon, as far fewer firms needed to purchase it. Consequently, the carbon market price was much lower than expected.

    - Technological standards are very effective at reducing emissions, but are inflexible, due to the large amounts of time and money involved. Consequently, emissions trading is preferred to technological standards, as it allows. 

- What lessons can Canada draw from the SO₂ emissions trading system to develop a Cap and Trade system for reducing GHGs? 
    1. The tradable permit approach is strictly superior to command-and-control approaches. Title IV more than achieved the SO₂ emissions goal, on time, without extensive legislation, and at lower costs than predicted. 
    2. large-scale tradable permit programs can work -> they can guarantee emissions reductions, and allow emitters to reduce compliance costs
    3. a tradable permit program can prouce surprises, and can react well to surprises produced elsewhere -> agile!
    4. efficient, competitive markets can take time to develop -> program design can speed p price discovers and market development
    5. tradable permits are not perfect -> one could not use a tradable permit approach to deal with, say, an isolated rousce with only local effects, as no market would exist

# International Agreements 
- What is the non-cooperative outcome? How do we find it?
    - Each player solves
	$$
	\frac{dB(Q)}{dQ} = \frac{dC(q_i)}{dq_i},
    $$
	where $$Q = \sum_i^n q_i$$ is the sum of the individual quantities, and $$q_i$$ is the quantity of abatement each country undergoes.

- What is the fully cooperative outcome?
    - If countries cooperate fully, we want to maximize
	
	$$
	\Pi = NB(Q) - \sum_i^n C(q_i), 
	$$
	
	which gives us the FOC

    $$
	N \frac{dB(Q)}{dQ} = \frac{dC(q_i)}{dq_i}.
	$$

- What is the partially cooperative outcome?
    - Signatories solve the problem
	
	$$
	\max k B\left(\sum_{j=1}^k q_{s, j} + \sum_{i=k+1}^n q_{n, i}^\star \right) - \sum_{j=1}^k C(q_{s, j}),
	$$
	
	where $$q_{s, j}$$ denotes the quantity of abatement undertaken by the j-th signatory. This results in the solution
	
	$$
    k \frac{dB(Q)}{dQ} (1 + \frac{\partial Q_n }{\partial Q_s}) = \frac{dC(q_j)}{dq_j},
    $$
	
	for all j=1...k signatories, where $$Q_n = \sum_{i=k+1}^n q_{n, i}^\star$$ and $$Q_s = \sum_{i=1}^k q_{s, i}$$, i.e. the sum of the non-signatories and the signatories, respectively.

- Why do international agreements have to be self-enforcing?
    - If they're not, they break apart → individual countries will leave, weakening the incentives, and causing more countries to leave. 

- What characteristics of the pollutant will determine whether the agreement will include a small or large number of countries?
    - Two main characteristics:
	    1. How costly abatement is, and
		2. How hazardous the pollution is.
    - If abatement is cheap, and the pollution is hazardous, we will see many countries signing the agreement; if abatement is expensive, and the pollution is innocuous, we will see few countries signing the agreement. 

# Fisheries
- How do we calculate the effort levels used in the open access fishery?
    - We use the formula
	  $$
	  TC = TR
	  $$
- How do we calculate the efficient effort levels for the open access fishery?
    - We use the formula
	  $$
	  MC = MR
	  $$

- What happens if a regulator imposes limited entry (i.e. licenses) and maximal days at sea regulation? Do such regulations result in lower harvests?
    - Regulations that restrict access to fisheries, or that create a small number of fish available for catch, typically create so-called "derby" situations, in which fishermen race to catch the most fish possible in the shortest amount of time. In one notable instance, the season was restricted from several months in length to 2—3 days, yet the total catch remained constant.
	- The restricted season led to other problems: the lack of fishing time created dangerous working conditions for the fishermen, and caused the supply of fresh fish to be dramatically restricted; instead of being able to eat fresh fish for several months of the year, consumers now had to eat frozen fish.
	- We saw a concentration in the market. Large industrial fishermen began to dominate, as they could out compete the smaller fishermen. Consequently, the limited entry (licenses) were ineffectual.

- Why are ITQ systems able to effectively and efficiently manage fish stocks?
    - By assigning rights prior to capture, ITQ's eliminate the rule of capture externality; consequently, derby conditions are substantially reduced.
	- As ITQ's are tradable in a competitive market setting, quotas flow to the highest value use, to ITQ's can be bought by the efficient fishermen. Consequently, the less efficient fishermen will receive *some* payoff, instead of the zero payoff they would have received in the Derby scenario.
	- Moreover, the ITQ system guarantees that the TAC is not exceeded, while making sure that the catch is caught in the most efficient manner.
	- Compared to the derby scenario, the ITQ system lowers the capital requirements → you don't need to have to have the fastest boat to catch fish, you can now catch fish as long as you possess a quota.

- What possible problems can arise with ITQ systems?
    - Inactive markets can allow large fisheries to purchase quotas at too low prices
	- Ineffective enforcement can allow fishermen to get away with abusing the system.
	- It can be difficult to establish a TAC on the fishery.
	- Quota share allotments must be done in a manner that is perceived to be fair. 

